4.6 Improve OpenShift Logging monitoring (#25159)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cluster-logging-dashboards-logging.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging-dashboards.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-dashboards-logging_{context}"]
= About the OpenShift Logging dashboard

The *OpenShift Logging* dashboard contains charts that show details about your Elasticsearch instance at a cluster-level for further diagnostics.

.OpenShift Logging charts
[options="header"]
|===
|Metric|Description

|Elastic Cluster Status
a|The curent Elasticsearch status:

> * 0 - Indicates the cluster is in green status, which means that all shards are allocated. 

Reviewer: we use 'green','yellow','red' words now.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging-dashboards.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-dashboards-logging_{context}"]
= About the OpenShift Logging dashboard

The *OpenShift Logging* dashboard contains charts that show details about your Elasticsearch instance at a cluster-level that you can use to diagnose and anticipate problems.

.OpenShift Logging charts
[options="header"]
|===
|Metric|Description

|Elastic Cluster Status
a|The current Elasticsearch status:

* ONLINE - Indicates that the Elasticsearch instance is online. 
* OFFLINE - Indicates that the Elasticsearch instance is offline. 
	
|Elastic Nodes
|The total number of Elasticsearch nodes in the Elasticsearch instance.

|Elastic Shards
|The total number of Elasticsearch shards in the Elasticsearch instance.

|Elastic Documents
|The total number of Elasticsearch documents in the Elasticsearch instance.

|Total Index Size on Disk
|The total disk space that is being used for the Elasticsearch indices.

|Elastic Pending Tasks

> |The total number of Elasticsearch changes that have not been executed, such as index creation, index mapping, shard allocation, or shard failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The total number of Elasticsearch changes that have not been completed, such as index creation, index mapping, shard allocation, or shard failure.
```

|Elastic JVM GC time
|The amount of time that the JVM spent executing Elasticsearch garbage collection operations in the cluster.

|Elastic JVM GC Rate
|The total number of times that JVM executed garbage activities per second.

|Elastic Query/Fetch Latency Sum
a|* Query latency: The average time each Elasticsearch search query takes to execute.
* Fetch latency: The average time each Elasticsearch search query spends fetching data. 

> Fetch latency should take less time than query latency. If fetch latency is consistently increasing, it could indicate slow disks, data enrichment, or large requests with too many results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a healthy cluster, fetch latency takes less time than query latency. If fetch latency is consistently increasing, it might indicate slow disks, data enrichment, or large requests with too many results.
```

|Elastic Query Rate
|The total queries executed against the Elasticsearch instance per second for each Elasticsearch node.

|CPU
|The amount of CPU used by Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana, shown for each component. 

|Elastic JVM Heap Used

> |The amount of JVM memory used. In a healthy cluster, you should see a pattern in the graph that shows regular drops as memory is freed by JVM garbage collection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The amount of JVM memory used. In a healthy cluster, you see a pattern in the graph that shows regular drops as memory is freed by JVM garbage collection.
```

|Elasticsearch Disk Usage
|The total disk space used by the Elasticsearch instance for each Elasticsearch node.

|File Descriptors In Use
|The total number of file descriptors used by Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana.

|FluentD emit count

> |The total number of Fluentd messages per second for the Fluentd default output and the retry count for the default output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The total number of Fluentd messages per second for the Fluentd default output, and the retry count for the default output.
```

|FluentD Buffer Availability

> |The percent of the Fluentd buffer that is available for chunks. A full buffer could indicate that Fluentd is not able to process the number of logs being sent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The percent of the Fluentd buffer that is available for chunks. A full buffer might indicate that Fluentd is not able to process the number of logs recieved.
```

|Elastic rx bytes
|The total number of bytes that Elasticsearch has received from FluentD, the Elasticsearch nodes, and other sources.

|Elastic Index Failure Rate

> |The total number of times per second that an Elasticsearch index fails. A high rate could indicate an issue with indexing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The total number of times per second that an Elasticsearch index fails. A high rate might indicate an issue with indexing.
```
